# Development of small-scale adeno-associated virus vector (AAV) production using Cell-Free Protein Synthesis (CFPS) technologies

## Project ID: **2531bd1615**
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Manufacturing The Future](../themes/manufacturing-the-future.md)

Research Area(s):
Synthetic Biology<br />Manufacturing technologies

UCL Lead department: [Biochemical Engineering](../departments/biochemical-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/biochemical-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Stefanie Frank](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/60577)

### Project Summary:

Recombinant Adeno-Associated Virus (rAAV)-based vectors are widely used in gene therapy development, offering transformative potential for patients with severe, often rare, genetic diseases. However, rAAV production is costly, time-consuming, and difficult to scale. It requires mammalian expression systems, robust downstream purification, and removal of non-functional capsids. Thus, there is a growing need for more sustainable and scalable manufacturing approaches.
Cell-free protein synthesis (CFPS) is a powerful, cost-effective platform for producing complex proteins at scales ranging from microscale to manufacturing. Its open nature allows easy manipulation, including post-translational modifications (PTMs). We have recently applied and optimised an in-house E. coli-based CFPS [1] to produce virus-like particles of the AAV5 serotype. The protein is expressed in soluble form and spontaneously assembles into capsid particles, which we demonstrated can be taken up by cells [2]. 
Building on this work, the aim of this project is to develop strategies for controlled capsid assembly and nucleotide packaging using cell-free protein synthesis technologies for simple and cost-effective production of rAAV at a small scale. This offers a practical route for early-stage development and will support rapid, high-quality, and cost-effective rAAV bioprocesses.

Key objectives include:
Cell-free protein synthesis (CFPS) of rAAV capsid proteins and development of controlled assembly strategies.
Development of particle loading strategies.
Evaluating targeted delivery and uptake of CFPS-produced rAAVs.
Assessing AAV CFPS scalability.

The candidate will gain expertise in synthetic biology, microbiology, CFPS, biochemical/biophysical methods, analytics, and bioprocessing. Results will be shared in supervisory meetings, conferences, and peer-reviewed publications.

References: [1] https://doi.org/10.3390/vaccines9030193; [2] https://doi.org/10.1021/acssynbio.4c00403
