# Engineering and production of protein nanowires for electro-biocatalysis

## Project ID: **2531bd1617**
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Manufacturing The Future](../themes/manufacturing-the-future.md)

Research Area(s):
Engineering<br />Chemistry<br />Materials

UCL Lead department: [Biochemical Engineering](../departments/biochemical-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/biochemical-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Jack Jeffries](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/37542)

### Project Summary:

In nature bacteria produce conductive protein nanowires to reduce extracellular metals in the environment to facilitate their uptake. The nanowire OmcZ from Geobacillus sulfurreducens has been shown to enable electron transfer over distances >10uM. At the same time multiple studies have shown direct electron transfer from metal electrodes to enzymes for the recycling of cofactors such as NADH/NADPH, needed in many biocatalytic reactions, or direct enzymatic conversion of substrates. 
The project will produce OmcZ in E.coli and use it for electron transfer in biocatalytic reactions. 
This is important as removing or reducing the need for expensive cofactors in biocatalytic reactions will enhance the sustainability and reduce the cost of enzyme-based production for fine value and value added chemicals and aid in the transition away from fossil fuels.
The aims of the project will be:

- To produce the protein nanowires in E.coli and use them to facilitate electron transfer to enzymes for cofactor recycling or direct biocatalytic conversion of substrates.
- Engineering of the nanowires to allow tethering of enzymes or proteins to increase the efficiency of electron transfer.
- Modification of the protein subunits to facilitate control over the length of the wires.
- Development of methods for printing of the produced wires

This project is part of a wider proposed programme of research which will investigate the combination of protein nanowires, enzymes and metal organic frameworks for electro biocatalysis. This interdisciplinary work will be carried out by academics and researchers from across Biochemical engineering, Chemistry and Mechanical engineering at the Manufacturing the futures lab UCL East.
We are looking for highly motivated, enthusiastic candidates with a background in molecular biology, biochemistry/bio catalysis/ organic chemistry or related degree. The candidate will have a passion for discovery and enjoy overcoming challenges and investigating new and exciting areas of research.
