# Enhancing Net-Zero Carbon Cities with Photovoltaic and Green Roof Integration for Adaptation to Extreme Climate Events

## Project ID: **2531bd1605**
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Energy and Decarbonisation](../themes/energy-and-decarbonisation.md)

Research Area(s):
Built environment

UCL Lead department: [Bartlett School of Environment, Energy and Resources (BSEER)](../departments/bartlett-school-of-environment-energy-and-resources.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/bartlett/bartlett-school-environment-energy-and-resources)

Lead Supervisor: [Nahid Mohajeri](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/25811)

### Project Summary:

Why this research is important: To combat climate change, the UK has set a 2050 target for achieving net-zero carbon emissions, requiring all buildings to meet net-zero carbons by this date. The goal of net zero carbon buildings can be reached through a complete switchover of the UK building stock to green energy technologies for power generation and heating, primarily through a major expansion in the use of renewables. 

What you will be doing. There have been several studies evaluating the energy and thermal performance of roof-integrated solar photovoltaic and green roofs as stand-alone systems. However, the optimal integration of both systems, particularly at urban scale, remains largely unexplored. The main tasks are as follows: 

- Develop and integrate Building Energy Simulation (BES) and urban climate models to evaluate energy performance at building and community scales.
- Contribute to the creation of an advanced geospatial machine learning framework to scale energy generation and thermal performance for diverse building types.
- Assess the effectiveness of integrated photovoltaic and green roof systems under both current and future climate scenarios to support the UK’s 2050 net-zero carbon targets.

Who we are looking for. We are seeking a highly motivated PhD researcher with interest in building energy modelling, urban climate analysis, and geospatial data science to join the project. The ideal candidate will have a background in environmental engineering, mechanical engineering, renewable energy, or a related field and experience with tools such as Building Energy Simulation and urban climate models as well as data analytics.

Who you will be working with. 
You will join a dynamic and multidisciplinary team of experts dedicated to advancing sustainable building technologies for net-zero carbon cities. The core team includes specialists in building/urban energy modelling, urban climate science, renewable energy, and geospatial data analytics.
