# Virtual Reality-based Decision Support System For Change Detection in Forest Environment Using Mobile & Drone-based Digital Twin

## Project ID: **2531bd1625**
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Digital Security and Resilience](../themes/digital-security-and-resilience.md)

Research Area(s):
Engineering<br />Physical Sciences<br />Artificial Intelligence and Robotics

UCL Lead department: [Civil, Environmental and Geomatic Engineering (CEGE)](../departments/civil-environmental-and-geomatic-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/civil-environmental-geomatic-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Romain Neuville](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/97592)

### Project Summary:

Forests are critical natural resources for humans and wildlife, as they protect biodiversity, provide pivotal ecosystem services, and help mitigate the impacts of global warming by absorbing anthropogenic CO2. Yet, many forests are under significant threat from climate change and unsustainable human activities. To protect these habitats, Digital Twins (DTs), i.e., virtual replicas of physical objects and processes, built from mobile and drone-based imagery and/or Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR), serve as powerful tools for safer, more effective, and more efficient forest management. However, despite growing interest in this technology, the digitization of forest environments is progressing slowly, hindered by the substantial and complex challenges it poses for the sector. 

You will develop a framework that will empower British political decision-makers, foresters, and local communities to utilize mobile and drone-based digital twins for forest lifecycle management, with a focus on change detection to evaluate the impact of their actions. This goal will be achieved through a Decision Support System (DSS) integrating a Virtual Reality (VR) platform that leverages an enhanced, semantically enriched digital twin powered by Artificial Intelligence (AI) to enable spatio-temporal analysis across multiple scales. The result will be a working approach that directly supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals for sustainable forest management, with a particular focus on British forests.

You will collaborate closely with highly qualified international academic partners, such as the Earth Observation and Ecosystem Modelling Lab, government-owned organizations, e.g., Forestry England, consulting firms (SRL D. Bemelmans), and technology providers, such as FARO, and Epic Games.

We are seeking a highly motivated, research-driven individual with a strong academic background in Reality Capture for Geospatial Science, proficiency in AI-based image restoration, and a passion for advancing digital twin technology in the forestry sector. The ideal candidate will demonstrate exceptional problem-solving abilities, analytical skills, and a collaborative mindset.
