# Atomic-Scale Fabrication Scale-up for Silicon Quantum Technologies

## Project ID: **2531bd1658**
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Quantum Technologies](../themes/quantum-technologies.md)

Research Area(s):
Quantum devices, components and systems<br />Surface science<br />Manufacturing technologies

UCL Lead department: [Electronic and Electrical Engineering (EEE)](../departments/electronic-and-electrical-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/electronic-electrical-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Taylor Stock](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/54734)

### Project Summary:

Why this research is important: The miniaturization of semiconductor devices is approaching the ultimate limit: atomic-scale precision. This is an exciting prospect because atomically precise electronic devices will open doors to new frontiers in science and technology. If we can develop a scalable atomically precise fabrication technique, then we might create world-changing technologies such as a universal solid-state quantum computer. 

Who you will be working with: This PhD project is part of a larger collaborative effort to develop a scalable and distributed quantum processor built from single-atom spin qubits in silicon. Within UCL, the student will be based in the experimental scanning probe fabrication group, but they will also have regular and close interactions with other research groups at UCL that are working on device and materials theory and modeling, and device measurement and operation. 

What you will be doing: This is a hands-on experimental project that will address a variety of engineering challenges associated with the scale-up of atomically-precise scanning probe fabrication. Specifically, you will become an expert in ultra-high vacuum scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) and the atomically precise fabrication technique known as hydrogen desorption lithography (HDL). You will develop image recognition tools and control and automation protocols that you will use to reproducibly fabricate multiple single-atom devices on the same silicon chip. In addition to STM you will also be trained in various other microfabrication techniques and learn to use a variety of advanced materials characterization techniques both at home in the UK and possibly working abroad with one of our various international collaborators.

Who we are looking for: This project is suited to students with a strong interest in hands-on experimental research and controls and instrumentation. You should have a background in applied physics and/or electronic engineering and a desire to learn more about quantum computing.
