# Harnessing Elasto-Inertia Turbulence to drive Net Zero Technologies and Decarbonisation

## Project ID: **2531bc1600**
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Energy and Decarbonisation](../themes/energy-and-decarbonisation.md)

Research Area(s):
Fluid dynamics and complex fluids<br />Energy transition<br />Manufacturing and Circular economy

UCL Lead department: [Mechanical Engineering](../departments/mechanical-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/mechanical-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Stavroula Balabani](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/30963)

Partner Organisation: Schlumberger Cambridge Research Limited

Stipend enhancement: £ 2,500

### Project Summary:

Introducing long, flexible polymers into a fluid can trigger elastic instabilities that give rise to complex, chaotic flow states, most notably, elasto-inertial turbulence (EIT). Unlike classical turbulence, EIT emerges at much lower Reynolds numbers and remains poorly understood. However, it holds significant promise for enhancing mixing and heat transfer in fluids, paving the way for novel  applications to meet net-zero targets. Building on previous research into the mechanisms of elasto-inertial turbulence, this studentship will explore how EIT can be harnessed to improve heat and mass transfer in flow systems relevant to energy storage and electrochemical technologies. 
Using state of the art experimental techniques this project will investigate how multiphase flows influence the dynamics of EIT, quantify its impact on heat and mass transfer in complex flow systems, and assess its universality across different flow configurations. It will also explore strategies to control EIT in industrial processes. The experimental findings will inform the development of high-fidelity computational tools for process design and optimisation, in collaboration with Schlumberger Cambridge Research, a global leader in energy technology. 

The studentship offers a unique PhD experience at the interface of cutting-edge academic research and real-world industrial innovation. We are seeking a highly motivated student with a strong background in fluid dynamics, a keen interest in experimental methods, excellent analytical and problem-solving skills, and a collaborative mindset to work effectively across academic and industrial research environments. The programme provides advanced training in experimental techniques, industrial placements, and close collaboration with Schlumberger Cambridge Research. Students will engage with a dynamic research community, present at international conferences, and publish in high-impact journals. These experiences will foster the development of a broad range of research and professional skills, enhance career prospects in both academia and industry, while contributing to addressing global challenges such as sustainable energy and decarbonisation.
