# Dopant Spin Qubits for Quantum Computing

## Project ID: **2531bd1676**
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Quantum Technologies](../themes/quantum-technologies.md)

Research Area(s):
Quantum devices, components and systems<br />Manufacturing technologies<br />Surface Science

UCL Lead department: [London Centre for Nanotechnology (LCN)](../departments/london-centre-for-nanotechnology.md)

[Department Website](https://www.london-nano.com)

Lead Supervisor: [Neil Curson](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/2213)

### Project Summary:

Why this research is important

Quantum computing offers game-changing advances in applications such as cyber security, drug discovery and materials design. Our goal is to develop the fundamental components of a modular and scalable quantum computer in silicon, using single dopant atoms as qubits. Dopant-in-silicon quantum computers offer several advantages over superconducting, ion trap and optical quantum computers, making them highly competitive in the race to the first universal quantum computer.

What you will be doing and who with

This PhD project is part of a larger collaborative effort within UCL and with collaborators from Germany, Canada and Australia. Our research group at UCL is unique in demonstrating the fabrication steps required for repeatable, high-yield, single atom device fabrication. In this project, the student will capitalise on the existing groundwork to fabricate single-atom qubits and couple them using a novel measurement based entanglement scheme. The fabrication of single-atom devices is a demanding process, requiring the student to learn a set of sophisticated experimental skills involving the ultra-high vacuum techniques of scanning tunnelling microscopy (STM) imaging and lithography, chemical vapour deposition and molecular beam epitaxy. The student will design unique fabrication protocols to precisely position single-atom qubits and accompanying components, as required for measurement based entanglement. They will also gain experience working in the LCN cleanroom, making electrical contacts to the quantum devices. They will work with other team members specialising in device theory and modelling, and device measurements and operation, thus retaining direct involvement in the scientific output of their devices throughout the entire research process.

Who we are looking for

This project is suited to students with a strong interest in hands-on experimental research and instrumentation. You should have a background in applied physics and/or electronic engineering and an interest in quantum computing.
