# THz photonics at the nanoscale

## Project ID: **2531bd1666**
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Information and Communication Technologies](../themes/information-and-communication-technologies.md)

Research Area(s):
Optical devices and subsystems<br />Radio frequency and microwave devices<br />Photonic materials

UCL Lead department: [Electronic and Electrical Engineering (EEE)](../departments/electronic-and-electrical-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/electronic-electrical-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Oleg Mitrofanov](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/542)

### Project Summary:

Advancing photonics beyond the-state-of-the-art undoubtedly will be achieved with novel materials structured at the nanoscale. However, achieving efficient light-matter interaction with nanoscale elements, which can include quantum dots and two-dimensional materials as single photon-sources or nanowires as detectors, requires enhanced coupling between electromagnetic waves and matter at the nanoscale. In the terahertz (THz) frequency range, this task is extremely challenging owing to the large mismatch between long wavelength of THz radiation and the size of nanoscale elements. As a result, the interaction between THz waves with nanoscale elements remains largely unexplored. 
     A solution to this challenging problem can be realised by means of THz resonators. The objective of this project is to design and investigate THz resonators for coupling electromagnetic waves to a nanoscale volume for applications in a novel THz spectroscopy system that takes advantage of the resonant field enhancement and spatial field localisation to probe material properties. 
    To realise this objective, the student will first develop full-wave electromagnetic simulations of THz resonators using numerical tools such as Finite-Difference Time-Domain (FDTD) solvers. Following the numerical investigations, the student will work on the next stage of development of a unique THz near-field microscopy system, which has already produced impactful results, including observation of THz surface waves, and spectroscopic analysis and mapping of modes in THz plasmonic resonators and THz waveguides. The student will develop a full range of photonics research skills covering system design, numerical simulations and development of advanced experimental techniques and methodologies. 
    THz spectroscopy exploiting plasmonic resonators is a developing area of research with applications in THz spectroscopy and fundamental THz light-matter interaction. Throughout the project the student will have opportunities of work with international collaborators and unique state-of-the-art-instrumentation. We are looking for a student in electronic engineering or physics with interest in experimental photonics research.
