# Optical Skyrmions

## Project ID: **2531bd1696**
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Physical Sciences](../themes/physical-sciences.md)

Research Area(s):
Physics

UCL Lead department: [Physics and Astronomy](../departments/physics-and-astronomy.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/physics-astronomy)

Lead Supervisor: [Philip Jones](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/5427)

### Project Summary:

Why this research is important: The skyrmion is a topological structure of a three-dimensional vector field (a quasiparticle), first introduced by Tony Skyrme in 1961 as a model for nuclei, and later taken up in domains as diverse as high-energy physics, early universe cosmology and, with significant success, in condensed matter physics where skyrmions have been realised in magnetic media.  Optical skyrmions, however, have only been realised much more recently yet generated much excitement, with the number of scientific publications growing approximately 20-fold in the last five years.  Potential applications for these novel beams arise from their complex polarisation structure, which present opportunities for high-capacity cold data storage and transmission, and in metrology.
Previous research at UCL has demonstrated the potential of structured light for optical trapping, conferring the ability to shape and tailor the optical forces particularly for non-spherical objects such as nanomaterials.  In this project we will seek to exploit the as yet untapped possibilities provided by the topological protection of the beam’s structure and the polarisation texture for the trapping, manipulation and sorting of asymmetric, anisotropic or otherwise non-uniform particles.
Who you will be working with: Prof Philip Jones leads the optical tweezers group at UCL, where research encompasses optical trapping experiments, particularly for biological and soft matter, structured light and active matter.  See the website www.ucl.ac.uk/~ucapphj for more about the group’s research.
What you will be doing: this is primarily a laboratory-based experimental project, but with the opportunity for modelling and simulations to support the experimental work.  
Who we are looking for: we are looking for a candidate with an excellent academic rack record, strong experimental skills, supported by some experience in programming.  Experience in optics/photonics would be an advantage.
