# Analogue-Digital Hybrid models of Quantum Computation

## Project ID: **2531bd1674**
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Quantum Technologies](../themes/quantum-technologies.md)

Research Area(s):
physics<br />quantum technologies

UCL Lead department: [London Centre for Nanotechnology (LCN)](../departments/london-centre-for-nanotechnology.md)

[Department Website](https://www.london-nano.com)

Lead Supervisor: [Andrew Green](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/34170)

### Project Summary:

The predominant model of quantum computation is a digital one, based upon discrete qubits and quantum gates. This approach has several advantages. Some of the most important of these are theoretical. It is universal. It allows us to assess when quantum computers will have an advantage and how large that advantage may be. Crucially, it has also allowed concrete schemes to overcome errors induced by the environment. 
However, there are other approaches. The simulation of quantum systems by engineering direct quantum analogues – quantum simulation – can arguably yield advantage before the gate-based model. Indeed there is a good case that this approach already has capability beyond classical computation. Alongside this the resurgence of interest in alternative classical computation models such as neuromorphic and reservoir computing because of their potentially dramatically reduced energy consumption. These all have quantum counterparts whose performance advantages are not yet clearly understood. Moreover, interfacing digital and analogue approaches has interesting promise.

This PhD will work on practical and fundamental questions in analogue approaches to quantum computation and their interface with digital quantum computation. For example: What hardware and theoretical developments are needed to enable optical lattice and optical tweezers to become universal quantum materials simulators?  How can we assess whether there is advantage in using quantum reservoirs for computation?

This is a theoretical project requiring a range of analytical and numerical skills. It will be based in the group of Prof Green and UCL carried out in collaboration with experimental teams (especially that of Prof Schneider (Cambridge) and Prof Pritchard (Strathclyde) to give concrete grounding to our investigations.
