# Spin qubit shuttling in industry-grade silicon-based quantum processors

## Project ID: **2531bc1598**
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Quantum Technologies](../themes/quantum-technologies.md)

Research Area(s):
Quantum Technologies<br />Quantum devices, components and systems

UCL Lead department: [London Centre for Nanotechnology (LCN)](../departments/london-centre-for-nanotechnology.md)

[Department Website](https://www.london-nano.com)

Lead Supervisor: [John Morton](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/35925)

Partner Organisation: Quantum Motion

Stipend enhancement: £ 2,500

### Project Summary:

Industrial CMOS devices excel at moving charges, for example in CCD camera arrays, however, quantum computing architectures require such shuttling to operate at the level of single electrons, and furthermore, to preserve the electron spin. This PhD project will focus on one of the key elements of a scalable quantum processor: spin shuttling modules to coherent transport spin within quantum processing units. The student will work towards demonstrating coherent spin shuttling over long distances, taking advantage of advanced industrial devices fabricated using 300mm wafer processing. 

Quantum computers promise to solve computational problems intractable for classical machines. Silicon-based spin qubit approaches to building a scalable quantum processor offer advantages such as high qubit density, record qubit coherence lifetimes for the solid state, and the ability to leverage the advanced nanofabrication methods of CMOS technologies. A core ingredient which has emerged within fault tolerant quantum computing architectures is the ability to move qubits through arrays, for which fast, high fidelity shuttling is required.

In this PhD project, you will use industrially manufactured silicon quantum devices in isotopically enriched silicon on 300 mm wafers to perform  long-range spin shuttling in a silicon metal-oxide-semiconductor nanostructure. The project will focus on (i) demonstrating spin shuttling in MOS devices, and (ii) developing methods to optimise the fidelity and speed of the shuttle. You will have opportunities to learn about advanced nanofabrication techniques, fast readout and coherent control of qubits all performed at millikelvin temperatures, and gain experience of working within an industrial R&D lab at Quantum Motion.
