# Innovative solid-state bioprocessing of seaweed biomass for sustainable biorefining and bioproduct manufacture

## Project ID: **2531bd1620**
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Manufacturing The Future](../themes/manufacturing-the-future.md)

Research Area(s):
Manufacturing technologies<br />Bioenergy<br />Synthetic Biology

UCL Lead department: [Biochemical Engineering](../departments/biochemical-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/biochemical-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Emily Kostas](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/71300)

### Project Summary:

Seaweed is an abundant and sustainable marine resource with significant potential for the bioeconomy. However, current bioprocessing methods often fail to fully utilise seaweed biomass and its residues. This project aims to address that gap by developing consolidated bioprocessing (CBP) strategies, where microbes convert biomass into valuable products in a single step, without the need for added commercial enzymes. By integrating CBP with solid-state fermentation (SSF), the research will contribute to the development of low-energy, scalable biorefinery systems that support the transition to a circular, sustainable bioeconomy.

You will be supervised by Dr Emily Kostas based at the new Manufacturing Futures Lab (MFL) at UCL East, who specialises in biorefining for the manufacture and recovery of seaweed products and extracts for a wide range of industrial applications. You will join a multidisciplinary research team and have access to advanced laboratory and pilot-scale bioprocessing facilities both at the MFL and the Biochemical Engineering department in Bloomsbury. 

The project will involve screening fungi (e.g. Aspergillus, Trichoderma) for their ability to grow and metabolise seaweed and its residues, optimising conditions to maximise growth and product yields. You will then explore co-culture systems with yeast (e.g. Saccharomyces cerevisiae) to enable simultaneous production of bioethanol and other targeted bioproducts. Promising microbial systems will be scaled up in pilot bioreactors, and their commercial potential assessed through bioproduct analysis, techno-economic evaluation, and life cycle assessment. You will gain training in microbial biotechnology, fermentation engineering, analytical chemistry, and sustainability assessment. 

This project blends the seaweed bioprocessing and fermentation expertise within UCL’s MFL and Biochemical Engineering Departments. Experience and/or interest in biochemical engineering, biotechnology or microbiology is essential, and biomass handling and fermentation is desirable. Relevant industry experience is also welcome.
