# Hybrid ion batteries based on Na-ion and K-ion

## Project ID: **2531bd1638**
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Energy and Decarbonisation](../themes/energy-and-decarbonisation.md)

Research Area(s):
Electrochemical sciences<br />Energy storage<br />Materials for energy applications

UCL Lead department: [Chemistry](../departments/chemistry.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/chemistry)

Lead Supervisor: [Yang Xu](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/70820)

### Project Summary:

Na-ion and K-ion batteries (NIBs & KIBs) are cost-competitive and sustainable alternatives of Li-ion batteries, holding promise in several sectors including power deployment devices and large-scale energy storage. Conventional NIBs and KIBs operate by using a single ion species, i.e., Na-ion in NIBs and K-ion in KIBs. Differently, this project will explore the concept of hybrid batteries operating on two ion species, Na-ion and K-ion, to deliver new knowledge and enhance battery performance.
In this project, you will investigate Na- and K-insertion processes in positive and negative electrodes, understand the thermodynamics and kinetics of ion insertion, and study the effect of electrode materials and electrode/electrolyte interface on the insertion process. You will construct Na/K hybrid batteries. New synthetic protocols will be developed with the guidance of materials’ environmental impacts, and a suite of characterisation tools (ex-situ/in-situ/operando) will be utilised to gain the understanding of fundamental electrochemistry in the electrodes and at the electrode/electrolyte interface.
You will be working in a vibrant research group that is one of the very few groups in the UK working on beyond Li, hybrid battery systems. You will be working with researchers experienced in a range of beyond Li systems (Na/K/Ca). Also, you will be collaborating with researchers across departments at UCL and in other universities in the UK and Europe for characterisation techniques and materials/electrodes processing.
This project will provide invaluable knowledge of the dynamic interactions between ions in battery operation and the dynamic interfaces between electrodes and electrolytes, as well as the demonstration of beyond Li, hybrid batteries as an promising next-generation energy technology. This project is best suited to students with an interest in sustainability and materials science for energy storage applications and in training on synthetic procedures, hands-on techniques, and exploratory research contributing to achieving the net zero target.
