# Computational Fluid Dynamics-Guided Design of Taylor-Couette Reactors for Pharmaceutical Crystal and Nanoparticle Synthesis

## Project ID: **2531bd1629**
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Engineering](../themes/engineering.md)

Research Area(s):
Manufacturing Technologies<br />Engineering Design<br />Particle Technology

UCL Lead department: [Chemical Engineering](../departments/chemical-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/chemical-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Luca Mazzei](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/3437)

### Project Summary:

Around 70-85% of pharmaceuticals are produced as solid dosage forms, involving crystals or nanoparticles. Drug performance and stability depend on particle properties, especially size distribution, shaped by reactor design and operation. In particle manufacturing, mixing is critical, as its interaction with particle nucleation and growth dictates product quality. Therefore, effective reactor design requires a detailed characterization of mixing and its interplay with particle-formation processes. For these analyses, computational fluid dynamics (CFD) offers a powerful tool.

Taylor-Couette reactors, consisting of two vertical coaxial cylinders with the inner one rotating, are particularly attractive, as varying the rotor speed provides access to different flow regimes and, consequently, control over mixing. This project aims to enhance mixing control by considering advanced rotor designs and assessing their effects on residence time distribution and micromixing time. The systems will be characterized using CFD, and the model will be validated against experimental data obtained from 3D-printed prototypes.

The CFD model will be extended with a population balance equation module to simulate in selected reactors a synthesis of pharmaceutical interest with well-established kinetics. This will allow to investigate how mixing and particle-formation processes interact and affect product quality.

The student will be based in the UCL Department of Chemical Engineering – one of the top research chemical engineering departments in the world. In a vibrant multidisciplinary environment, (s)he will work closely with the supervisory team, fellow PhD students and postdoctoral researchers at the interface between chemical reaction engineering, multiphase CFD modelling, crystallization and/or nanoparticle synthesis. The project will involve some experimental work, providing also training in mixing characterization as well as particle synthesis.

CFD knowledge is not essential. The post-holder will present research results at international conferences and in peer-reviewed journal papers of high international standing. Willingness to perform independently, yet within a collaborative environment, is a must.
